# Beginners Guide to EC2 *(Elastic Compute Cloud)*

Is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity(virtual machines) in the cloud. It reduces the time to obtain and boot a new server intance to minutes, allowing you to quick scale capacity as your computing requirements change.
EC2 allows you to pay for the capacity you actually use.

### EC2 billing options

 - **On Demand**: Allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour(windows) or the second(linux) with no commitment.
 - **Reserved**: Provides you a capacity reservation with a significant discount on the hourly charge for a instance. 1 **or** 3 year terms.
 - **Spot**: Enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity. Good if you have flexible start and end times.
 - **Dedicated Hosts**: Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Good if you want to use an existing software license(Oracle and VM for example).

#### Use cases

##### On Demand
 - Perfect for users that want low cost and flexibility od EC2 without any up-front payment or long-term commitment.
 - Application with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
 - Applications being developed or teste on Amazon EC2 for the first time.

##### Reverved Instances *(RI)*
 - Applications with steady state or predictable
 - Applications that require reserved capacity
 - Users can make up-front payments to reduce their total computing costs even further:
   - Standard RIs (Up to 75% off on-demand)
   - Convertible RIs (Up to 54% off on-demand). Feature the capability to change the attributes of the RI as long as the exchange results in the creation of Reserved Instances of **enqual** or **greater** value.
   - Scheduled RIs are available to match your capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule that only requires a fraction of a day, a week or a month. For example a big processing event on the ond of the week.

##### Spot Instances
 - Applications that have flexible start and end times.
 - Applications that are only fealible at very low compute prices. 
 - Users with a urgent need for large amounts of additional computing capacity. For example, big data processing, if you run it on unusual schedules it can become cheaper.

##### Spot Instances
 - Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualizatio.
 - Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.
 - Can be purchased On-Demand(hourly).
 - Can be purchased as a Reservation for up to 70% off the On-Demand price.
 - If amazon terminates the instanse, you only pay for the partial hour. If you terminates, you pay for the complete hour.

### EC2 Instance Types

| Family |           Speciality          |                                      Use cases                                     |
|:------:|:-----------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
|   F1   | Field programmable Gate Array | Genomics research, financial analytics, real-time video processing, big data, etc. |
|   I3   |       High Speed Storage      |                          NoSQL DBs, Data Warehousing, etc.                         |
|   G3   |       Graphics Intensive      |                      Video Encoding/3D application Streaming.                      |
|   H1   |       High Disk Throuput      |    MapReduce-based workloads, distributed file systems such as HDFS and MapR-FS    |
|   T2   |  Lowest Cost, General Purpose |                                Web Servers/Small BDs                               |
|   D2   |         Dense Storage         |                         Fileservers/Data Warehousing/Hadoop                        |
|   R4   |        Memory Optimized       |                              Memory Intensive Apps/DBs                             |
|   M5   |        General Purpose        |                                 Application Servers                                |
|   C5   |       Compute Optimized       |                               CPU Intensive Apps/DBs                               |
|   P3   |  Graphics/General Purpose GPU |                       Machine Learning. Bit Coin Mining, etc                       |
|   X1   |        Memory Optimized       |                             SAP HANA/Apache Spark, etc.                            |

##### Trick to remember the names
 -  **F**PGA
 -  **I**OPS
 -  **G**raphics
 -  **H**igh Disk Throuput
 -  **T**2 micro, cheap general purpose

 -  **D**ensity
 -  **R**AM

 -  **M**ain choice for general purpose
 -  **C**ompute
 -  **P**raphics
 -  **X** Extreme programming

### EBS *(Elastic Block Storage)*

Allows you to create storage volumed and attach them to ECs instances. You can create a file system on top of these volumes, run a database, or use them in any way you would use a block device. EBS volumes are places in specific Availability Xone, where they are replicates to protect you from the failure of a single component.

#### EBS Volume Types

 - General Purpose SSD *(DP2)*
   - General Purpose, balances both price and performance.
   - Ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with up to 10.000 IOPS*(In and Out operations per second)* and the ability to burst up to 3000 IOPS for extended periods of time for volumes at 3334 GiB and above.
 - Provisioned IOPS SSD *(IO1)*
   - Designed for I/O intensive applications such as large relational or NoSQL databases.
   - Use if you need more than 10,000 IOPS.
   - Can provision up to 20,000 IOPS per volume.
 - Throuput Optimized HDD *(ST1)*
   - Big Data
   - Data warehouses
   - Log processing
   - Cannot be a boot volume
 - Cold HDD (SC1)
   - Lowest Cost Storage for infrequently accesses workloads.
   - File Server.
   - Cannot be a boot volume.
 - Magnetic *(Standard, deprecated)*
   - Lowest cost per gigabyte of all BES volume types that is bootable. Magnetic volumes are ideal for workloads where data is accesses infrequently, and applications where the lowest storage cost is important.